Add Private BLE Device integration docs (#28761)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/private_ble_device.markdown

---
title: Private BLE Device
description: Instructions on how to integrate private BLE devices into Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Device Tracker
ha_release: '2023.10'
ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_domain: private_ble_device
ha_platforms:
  - device_tracker
ha_bluetooth: true
ha_config_flow: true
ha_integration_type: integration
ha_codeowners:
  - '@Jc2k'
---

> Some BLE devices use a privacy feature called Resolvable Private Addresses to stop businesses tracking you when you are out with your smart devices. Instead of having a single static address that can be used to track you, its Bluetooth address changes frequently. If you have [Bluetooth](/integrations/bluetooth) enabled and functioning and you know the Identity Resolving Key for your device, you can add it to Home Assistant as a Private BLE Device. We can then work out which random mac addresses are related to the IRK and track those.

Reviewer: Should we tell them the integration requires the device to be in range to allow it to be configured?

Author: Done

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

> There are 2 common representations for encoding an IRK - base64 encoding or hex encoding. This integration supports both.

Reviewer: It might be nice to support the XML format as well in the future so people can paste it right out of the key chain and avoid errors with manual extraction

Author: Good idea; i have put it on my backlog.

> ## Getting your Identity Resolving Key

Reviewer: It sure would be nice of the iOS and Android apps would display this value for the user

Author: I agree. Haven't looked too hard but I'm not sure iOS will give it up. Not even sure how you get it out of an esp without nimBLE.

---
title: Private BLE Device
description: Instructions on how to integrate private BLE devices into Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Device Tracker
ha_release: '2023.10'
ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_domain: private_ble_device
ha_platforms:
  - device_tracker

> ha_bluetooth: true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Doesn't use bluetooth discovery

ha_config_flow: true
ha_integration_type: integration
ha_codeowners:
  - '@Jc2k'
---

> Some BLE devices use a privacy feature called Resolvable Private Addresses to stop businesses tracking you when you are out with your smart devices. Instead of having a single static address that can be used to track you, its Bluetooth address changes frequently. If you have [Bluetooth](/integrations/bluetooth) enabled and functioning and you know the Identity Resolving Key for your device, you can add it to Home Assistant as a Private BLE Device. We can then work out which random mac addresses are related to the IRK and track those.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some BLE devices use a privacy feature called Resolvable Private Addresses to stop businesses from tracking you when you are out with your smart devices. Instead of having a single static address that can be used to track you, its Bluetooth address changes frequently. If you have [Bluetooth](/integrations/bluetooth) enabled and functioning and know your device's Identity Resolving Key, you can add it to Home Assistant as a Private BLE Device. We can then work out which random MAC addresses are related to the IRK and track those.
```

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

> Your device must be on and broadcasting in range before adding it to Home Assistant - we check that it's visible to validat your IRK is correct.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your device must be on and broadcasting in range before adding it to Home Assistant - we check that it's visible to validate that your IRK is correct.
```

> There are 2 common representations for encoding an IRK - base64 encoding or hex encoding. This integration supports both.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two common representations for encoding an IRK - base64 encoding or hex encoding. This integration supports both.
```

> ## Getting your Identity Resolving Key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Getting your Identity Resolving Key (IRK)
```

### On macOS

> If you are trying to get the IRK for your iPhone or Apple Watch you'll need to be logged in to the Mac with the same iCloud account as on those devices. This should also work for devices that you pair with macOS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are trying to get the IRK for your iPhone or Apple Watch, you must be logged in to the Mac with the same iCloud account on those devices. This procedure should also work for devices that you pair with macOS.
```

1. Start the **Keychain Acess** application.

> 2. In the left sidebar make sure iCloud is selected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In the left sidebar, make sure iCloud is selected.
```

> 3. In the search bar in the upper right type Bluetooth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the search bar in the upper right, type Bluetooth.
```

> 4. A list of GUID are shown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. A list of GUIDs is shown.
```

> 5. Double click on a record. As part of the **Account** field it will say `Public: XX:XX:XX:XX:XX:XX`. This is a MAC address and should match the device you are trying to work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Double-click on a record. As part of the **Account** field, it will say `Public: XX:XX:XX:XX:XX:XX`. This MAC address should match the device you are trying to work with.
```

6. Click on show password
7. You will have to enter your password, then enter your username and password.

> 8. macOS will show some XML. You are looking for the "Remote IRK" field. After there is a data field that contains a base64 encoded version of your Identity Resolving Key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. macOS will show some XML. You are looking for the "Remote IRK" field. After there is a data field that contains a base64 encoded version of your Identity Resolving Key.
```

## ESPresense

> If you already use Identity Resolving Key tracking with ESPresence then you already have a hex encoded version of your Identity Resolving Key. Home Assistant can use the key in this format directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you already use Identity Resolving Key tracking with ESPresence then you already have a hex-encoded version of your Identity Resolving Key. Home Assistant can use the key in this format directly.
```
